May 19th, 2016

Attn: Debra Maercklein, Mike Gilligan, Freya Gustafsson
Subject: Position of “Software Developer”

Dear Debra, Mike & Freya,
It hasn’t been long since we last touched base, but I have continued to work on coding projects and in an attempt to do something a little more interesting with this medium I’m writing this cover letter in a blog post format detailing a project I have worked on since our last interview, that post begins below:




Since interviewing for the Backend Engineer position with your group this past December I have continued to work hard to improve my skills as a software developer.  In fact, the past four months have been one of the most productive stretches that I’ve experienced since beginning to write code, and I believe that this was ignited by the study that I engaged in to prepare for my interview with your panel.  The application and interview process helped me to identify the concepts and tools that I needed to focus upon to become strong candidate for a position like this, and familiarizing myself with them during that stage left me more equipped to use them in my work going forward.
During this time the frameworks and packages that I have gained experience with and techniques and standards that I have adopted have put me further along the path to developing software as opposed to simply writing scripts.  For instance, at the time of our interview I was installing python packages to system python and employing that instance for all projects; I now create a lighter-weight, project specific interpreters using Buildout or Virtualenv.  I’ve always tried to format python in a readable style, but I have since discovered PEP 8 and all python code that I have written since that time is compliant to this standard.  I had utilized API’s before, but I now have a deeper understanding of them having made commits to the Flask/Python RESTful API that is in production at TriMet as a part of the GIS Survey project.  I had written many scripts, but I’ve now generated executeables as a part of a python package using setup.py and python packaging standards.  I had the ability pass SQL queries to database using python, but I now approach that type of task by building and interacting with ORMs using SQLAlchemy.  Even in light of this progress I recognize that I still have a lot to learn, but I think that the development that I have shown in a relatively short period of time illustrates the strength of my aptitude and that I will be able to take on anything required of me in this role.
Beyond having the ability to carry out the work, I know the importance of being a good fit on a team and I’ve already made inroads towards becoming a cohesive part of your group.  The tools that you use to communicate and collaborate with each other such as GitLab, HipChat and IT Bugs have already been integrated into my approach and I have established good relationships with several of the developers here.  I also bring a genuine enthusiasm to programming, derived from the satisfaction that I get from this type of complex work, that I think will positively affect the morale of the team.
In closing, thank you for taking the time to consider my candidacy, and I ask for the opportunity to meet in person to test my knowledge and aptitude in coding and to discuss the prospect of hiring me as Software Developer.
Sincerely,
Grant Humphries